------------------------------------------------------------

Welcome to your end-of-phase phase project! The goal of this exercise is for you to practice using pandas and teamwork skills to create a repository that creates structured CSV files from your chosen data-collection resource. Think of this project as a simulation of a data-driven workplace, where you will satisfy the hierarchy of data needs by first implementing a script that successfully extracts data from some unstructured resource. This will be a guided experience in that we will give you the steps you will need to complete, but how you complete those steps will be up to you and your team. We will grade your work based on completion, organization, and showcased understanding. But remember: "done" is better than "perfect", so even if your pipeline is missing major features, we still recommend you submit your project! 

We will provide you with a list of APIs you can pull from and websites you can scrape from to create your project. The goal is to draw a large corpus of data from which you will be able to generate predictions.

This project will be due May 27th at 11:59 PM ET. Follow the listed steps below to get started:

Part 0: Norm & Form

The first thing any successful team should do is establish communication norms and time to meet outside of class. As the time frame for this project is limited, you must meet as a team outside of class to work on this project.

In a team meeting, you should ask each member the following questions:

How do you prefer to receive feedback? Direct or indirect? Private or amongst the team?
How do you prefer to be contacted? (Slack should be our default preference)
Which part of the project would you prefer to take? Does this part of the project require another part to be completed?
When are you not available (over Slack or to meet)?
How will you keep accountability amongst each other?
Do you have some busy days coming up when you will be completely unavailable? 
There are many guides out there for you to establish team norms. To start, check out this Asana guideLinks to an external site.

Part 1: Identify Resource & Create GitHub Repo (Due by 5/21)

First, you will identify a data collection resource that interests you and your team. We provide a list of possible APIs and websites to scrape from underneath the section titled "Data Collection Options", however, you are free to select a resource of your team's choosing. However, this resource cannot be an already formatted CSV file. You should choose a resource that currently exists in an unstructured or semi-structured format. 

Furthermore, you will be using the end-product of this project (the dataset itself) in your Phase 2 end-of-phase project to generate predictions. Therefore, you must identify which dependent variable you will be predicting, and which independent variables you will use to form these predictions. Essentially, you must answer the following questions:

What does your dataset explore?
What is your dependent variable in the data you are pulling from?
Is this variable categorical or quantitative? 
What are your independent variables?
Are these variables quantitative or categorical? (you should have a good mix of both types, i.e. not all categorical)
How many independent variables do you have? (you should have more than 5 independent variables)
How large is your dataset? (it should be larger than 1000 rows, but the more the better the powerLinks to an external site.)
These questions should be answered in your README.md file in an organized format. Use the template attached to create this README file.

After completing these the GitHub Repository and just getting our file structure ready. By keeping things organized, it makes it easier for folks looking at our projects to find the information they need. You will most likely have at least the following folders: "data" and "notebooks". 

You should also figure out how you will be sharing code. Check out the following GitHub guides to get started:

Inviting collaborators to a personal repositoryLinks to an external site.
Using Git As A Group (DevMountain)Links to an external site.
Skip any mention of branches. You all will instead be directly committing to the main branch.
To summarize, you've completed part 1 of this project once you've:

Created one shared GitHub Repository that will hold your project.
Created the folders required.
Answered the above questions as a team.
Created a README.
Part 2: Transform Your Data & Perform Light EDA (Due by 5/27)

After creating your repository and answering your analytical questions you should begin your data collection process using your API & Web-Scraping skills. Note that the completion of your code is dependent on your ability to look up documentation, and previous lectures, as well as your ability to work with your teammates. Subsequently, we recommend that you complete the code based on best practices that you've learned throughout the fellowship, as opposed to explicit instructions.

At the same time, we recommend that you have the following file at minimum:

data_ingestion.py: A Python module that pulls data from an API or web scrapes. This file will then write your unstructured data into a CSV file.
After completing this module, each team member will conduct their own EDA. That is, every single team member should create a file called [name]_eda.ipynb in the notebooks "folder" and explore the data using univariate and bivariate techniques. For example, if Mickal and I were completing this project, we would have the following files:

notebooks/farukh_eda.ipynb
notebooks/mickal_eda.ipynb
By completing separate EDAs,  we're able to split the workload of analyzing the dataset and come to independent conclusions which we can then share with the team.

Part 3: Stand-Up

For this final step, you will present the features you've completed (or will complete) in a "light" 10-minute standup. No slides are necessary! You will simply answer:

What have you accomplished?
What are your roadblocks?
What will you accomplish next?
A demo of your work would be appreciated as well!